---
layout: post
title: "First Lunch of Spring 2016"
date: 2016-02-27 00:00:00
categories: lunch
author: sofya
---

The first lunch of the Spring 2016 semester happened on February 10. After introductions and group news, we had a discussion of the roles of male allies in CS Women, the goals of the group, what it means to its members, and how we can better serve the community. The following is based on the opinions voiced during the discussion.

# Introducing new [officers](http://cswomenumass.github.io/officers.html):
- Graduate co-chair: [John Foley](http://jjfiv.github.io/index.html)
- Treasurer: [Emma Tosch](http://people.cs.umass.edu/~strubell/)
- PR chair: Su Lin Blodgett
- Diversity chair: [Shamya Karumbaiah](http://shamya.github.io/)
- GWIS liaison: [Amee Trivedi](http://people.cs.umass.edu/~amee/)
- Graphic designer: Sophia Berger 
- Webmaster: [Ishita Dasgupta](http://ishitadg.weebly.com/)
- Scribe: [Sofya Vorotnikova](https://people.cs.umass.edu/~svorotni/)

# Group news:
- Last semester the group became a Graduate Student Organization, which allows us to get funding from the university in addition to funding from the department.
- Recently we launched a new website and blog. Feel free to contribute a blog post!
- Weekly hack/office hours/hangout. Currently held every Friday 4-5pm in CS303. Stop by to ask any questions you have to co-chairs or just hang out.
- CSWomen has been awarded a Welcoming the World to Amherst grant by the Student Engagement and International Programs Office. This grant will be used to sponsor a mentoring program that will help new students with the transition to graduate school. Each mentor will be assigned two students, one domestic and one international, to create bonds between current and new students as well as domestic and international ones. In order to fulfill the task best, mentors will receive training from the program. For more information see this [blog post](http://cswomenumass.github.io/diversity/ww2a/2016/01/30/ww2a-grant.html).
- Last semester the group started a new initiative: supplying women's restrooms in the CS building with feminine hygiene products. Shaylyn Adams volunteered to stock the supplies and obtain funding from the faculty.

# Goals of CS Women group:
- Providing support for women in computing.
- Changing the perception of women in computing, both in the department and in the community at large.
- Helping its members connect with other women, since it is often hard to do in a male-dominated environment.
- Letting members draw pride from involvement in the group.

# Role of male allies, reaching out:
- Having a male co-chair can help the group reach out to the community, attract more interest, and improve the image of the group. It brings new perspectives and opportunities.
- The group should organize a few publicity events to educate members of the community about the challenges that women in computing face and the goals of the group in trying to overcome those challenges.
- In addition to publicity events, the group should organize social events where everyone (not just women) is invited.
- At the same time, many members expressed interest in women-only events, in particular monthly lunches.
- Ask men about their perspective and ways in which they are willing to be included. Ask current allies how they got involved and what are some useful strategies for involving more people.
- For more information on the role and involvement of male allies, see this [extensive survey](https://www.ncwit.org/sites/default/files/resources/menasadvocatesallies_web.pdf).

# Other suggestions:
- More social events
- Cultural potluck and/or cultural movie night
- Events on public speaking
- Having some time at lunch events set aside for people to speak up and ask questions
- Joint game night with Women in Math group

If you have any comments, suggestions, or recommendations, please email womenchairs@cs.umass.edu, talk to one of the co-chairs, or stop by CS303 on Fridays 4-5pm.